- [Tim] All right, so continuing on
with our relative URIs example,
we can add more relative URIs,
like headed on the same host,
and resolve them using the same baseURI,
so let's have a go at doing that.
So, at the moment we've got a baseURI,
and we've got one URI here,
uri1, or the relative path,
and let's actually convert
that into a single one,
or add two additional ones.
So the uri2, and three,
and we'll make those a
little bit different.
So for the second one,
we'll make that as
props instead of phones,
so we'll make that tvs,
there we'll change the
query there to manufacturer.
So percent manufacturer
is equal to samsung,
and for the third one,
let's a have a completely
separate a path there,
in fact, change it completely
to /stores/locations,
and add a query zip=12345,
and then what we could
actually do here is,
we got resolvedUri,
let's change that to uri1
= baseUri.resolve(uri1),
so we can now add more relative URIs,
like headed on the same
host and resolve them, so,
that to resolvedUri2, and three,
and change this to two and three,
and I'll change this code
now so it's pointing to url1
and we'll make this one url1,
and I'm just gonna get
rid of the other code
that we commented out now,
and let's do the same for
the other two as well.
So, url2 now, and into resolvedUri2,
with specific here,
and we'll fix the third one up as well,
as you can see there,
and that's resolvedUri3.
All right, so let's actually
check that works; run that.
So you can see we've got now,
three URLs without any exceptions,
and as I talked about in the last video,
we can now change the server,
and update only one line of code,
rather than updating every
line that specifies a URI.
So if you go back to our baseURI,
currently that's set to myserver.com,
well let's change that to mynewserver.com,
run it again,
and you can see the three URLs
have now been successfully
changed to newserver.com
and you've only changed
a single line of code.
So in a real world application,
you'll probably define
the baseURI's constant
but I haven't done that here
because the code is fairly trivial.
The point here, obviously
again, as you saw that,
I changed the server to mynewserver,
updated only one line of code,
rather than having to update
every line that specifies a URI.
So basically, when working
with many locations
on the same host,
it's far better to use
the base or a base URI
with relative URIs.
Now the other thing you can also do
is determine a relative URI,
when you know the base URI,
and the absolute URI, using
the URI.relativize method,
so let's see how that works,
and we're gonna add some code down here.
So we're gonna do something like URI,
we'll call it relativizedURI
= baseUri.relativize,
than we pass in the resolved,
we'll do a the resolvedUri2,
as a test there,
and let's print that out.
So we got ("Relative URI
= " + relativizeURI);.
So actually run that.
So I can see in this case here,
we've got the Relative URI
which was basically the same URI
we assigned to the variable Uri2,
printing out on the screen there.
All right, so that's enough
about working with URIs,
let's now move on to
how to actually access
a location on the Internet.
Now earlier, I said that you use a URI
until you actually want
to access a resource
and you then convert it to a URL.
Now, when working with web locations,
you'll mainly use URIs
to build absolute URIs
from relative ones.
Now for our simple
examples moving forward,
we're gonna use a URL right away,
since we won't be doing
queries or building URIs
based on user input.
Now, there are a few ways
to read a webpage using Java.
Let's actually have a go
at reading the webpage
like headed at example.org.
If we actually go there
and take a quick look,
you can see that's a very
simple example of webpage,
and it's actually setup by IANA,
which is the Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority.
All right, so let's go back and have a go
at doing that in IntelliJ.
All right, so let's comment
out a lot of this code,
and I suggest you comment
out rather than delete it,
because a we're actually going to be
using some of it back again in a minute.
All right, so I'm just going
to comment that all out,
and I'm also going to comment
out the URISyntaxException,
and we're gonna come back
and add one line here,
and that's going to be,
URL url = new URL("http://example.org");.
Simple enough, eh?
So you basically just have
to use the constructor
and pass the web addresses again,
same were using on line 10.
Now there are versions
of the URL constructor
that accept a protocol,
a host, port, file,
and other information,
but when reading webpages, an API,
or a service on the Internet,
you usually just have to
provide a http web address,
and include any required parameters
that form part of the URL.
Now since all URLs are also URIs,
you can actually convert the URL to a URI,
and call the methods that
return the components
of a URI.
Let's see, let's see what I mean by that.
So we're gonna go URI,
uri, to accepted import,
it's gonna be = url.,
you see there's the
method there, .toURI(),
and now that we've got that back in again,
we need to uncomment the code
that catches the URISyntaxException,
and what we could do, well
in fact what I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna paste in the code
that I deleted earlier on.
So you can grab this from
the resources section
of this video.
So we'll come down here, paste that in.
So basically we're converting
the URL back into a URI,
and again we're able to then
call these specific methods
for the URI to see what
they come back with.
So let's actually try running it.
Now you can see when I do that,
we can see that the Scheme
there is http and the output,
console output window,
the Scheme's specific path is the //
or two forward slashes, example.org
and the Host and Authority,
are also example.org as you can see there.
All right, so let's just
comment that out again now,
and what we're going to do is,
we're going to have a
go at reading directly
from the URL using an InputStreamReader.
Actually, I can comment
out the URI as well.
So we're gonna start there
with a BufferedReader,
so BufferedReader, inputStream,
= new BufferedReader,
then we're gonna do a
new InputStreamReader
and it's url.openStream.
Then we'll also need to
catch the IOExceptions,
let's just clear up some of this code.
So I'm gonna catch an IOException,
and we'll get rid of the
MalFormed Syntax Exception,
a MalFormed URL Exception rather.
All right, so so far, we've
got the BufferedReader
InputStream now, so let's
have a go at actually reading
the entire output, so we're
gonna start now after that line,
String line =, and initialise
it to an empty string,
then add a while there,
so while(line !=_null),
then we're gonna do line
= inputStream.readLine[),
then we got to output that line,
then outside of the (mumbles),
we're going to put inputStream.close[).
That should be fairly
straight forward, for you,
you can see that we're using
the URL.openStream() method
on line 15 there,
and that opens a connection to the URL,
and underneath the covers,
it's gonna be doing all
the loading and stuff,
like creating a socket,
because we're using a high level API,
we're being abstracted away
from the need to do that.
So the method actually
returns an InputStream
that we can use to read, as you can see,
we're using that to read from it,
the code, of our code
on line 19, reading what
until we actually basically
get to no more output,
and we just are outputting
that to the console,
and then we're closing
the string on line 22,
once we're actually done with it.
So we're wrapping the InputStream,
which is what this url.openStream returns,
and InputStreamReader, and
then we're wrapping that,
in a BufferedReader as well.
So I think of the url.openStream method
as a convenience method that's
actually performing two steps
that you can do individually.
So you can open a connection to a url,
then use the url.openConnection method,
and that returns a URLConnection,
and we'll look at that in a minute.
Then you can get an InputStream
from the URLConnection,
but in this case, the
url.openStream method,
as a convenience, is
performing those two steps,
and again, once we get to that point,
we can use a BufferedReader
as we would normally use it
in an application.
So if we actually run this now,
you can see that we've got the html,
and there's some style sheet code there,
there's the title, et cetera,
some CSS, and then as we scroll down,
we can see the actual text
that is in the body tag
section of the html document,
so that's worked nicely.
Now depending on your
previous experience with html,
that may or may not be
what you expected to see.
So maybe you're expecting
to see what you saw
when we visited the webpage,
but when you're using your browser,
it's really the html data
or the file that's returned,
that we can see in the console
output here in IntelliJ.
So the browser is actually rendering that
based on that input,
so it's reading the file and
rendering the style information
metadata, and other information.
So in other words, it's spooling
a more user friendly view,
of what we can see in
the console output here.
But when we're reading
a webpage pragmatically
as we've done here, we're
just getting the raw html,
so your application would
then need to pass the html
and pick out specific
tags or other information
depending on what you're
trying to achieve.
So what we've done there,
well that's one way to read a webpage.
The second way is to use
the URLConnection class,
so let's actually have a go at
seeing the other way of doing it.
So let's actually just
comment out this code for now.
All the code we'll add
into the InputStream
while doing things,
and what we're gonna do
instead, is after the URL,
we're gonna put,
URLConnection urlConnection
= url.openConnection[),
and then we'll also want to catch,
a MalformedURLException,
and we'll just add some code
for the catch block for that.
So if I say good,
we've actually created
a URLConnection object,
now we want to call the
URLConnection.connect method
to connect to the URL.
So go ahead and do that after that line,
by typing urlConnection.connect.
So you might be wondering here,
why two steps are required.
So why do we have to call openConnection,
which we're doing on line 13,
and then the connect method on line 14?
Well that's because
the openConnection call
doesn't connect to the URL,
it returns an openConnection instance,
and you can use the instance
then to configure the connection.
You can say whether you
want to read or write
to the connection with
a catch it will be used,
if that's available for
the protocol you're using,
so on and so forth.
So in other words, it
gives you a chance to send
any configuration settings
that will ultimately influence
how the connection's made.
So, you might call a few methods
in between the openConnection call
and the connect method call.
Now, by default, you can
only read from a connection,
and if you want to write to a connection,
you have to call the
URLConnection.setDoOutput method
before you can call the connect method.
So let's actually do that,
just so that we can figure in something,
so do that after the openConnection call,
to put something like
urlConnection.setDoOutput[True].
All right, so we've
called the connect method,
trying to set values on
the connection though,
will result in an error.
Now, a thing to keep in mind here,
is that once you've actually
called the connect method,
and you can see that on line 15,
once you try to set values
on the connection after that call,
and it will result in an error,
and the point is here is,
to make sure you do any configuration
after opening the connection
but before calling the connect method.
All right, so we're using
the URLConnection class,
the URL you're connecting to,
it doesn't have to be a webpage
or a web location, and
you don't have to be
using the http scheme,
but to many of the methods in the class,
already applicable to HTTP connections,
and as you'll see in the next video,
you actually want to use a
subclass of URLConnection
when you're connecting to a web URL,
rather than using the
URLConnection directly.
But I think it's good to know how to use
the more generic class,
so let's actually read that webpage.
We're gonna connect, and
then what we're gonna do is,
change, we'll undo this code again,
and we'll just make a few little changes.
This time it's gonna be,
BufferedReader.InputStream
= new BufferedReader,
then we want this new InputStreamReader
but instead of url.openStream now,
instead what we'll do there is,
we'll put a urlConnection.getInputStream.
The rest of the code
there, to retrieve it,
should be the same.
So basically the code is very similar
than when we read directly
using an InputStreamReader
except for the basic
of the urlConnection.getInputStream
method call
on line 20,
and other than that,
it's pretty identical,
and if you actually run that code,
you can see they got the same results,
the html are correctly downloaded.
All right, so let's end the video here.
In the next video, I will talk
more about the URLConnection
and how you can do more
than just read a webpage,
so see you in the next video.